# Project Overview
-  The goal of this project is to first host web content via a container while utilizing docker. This makes up the first part of the project and is simply creating an image of a web hosting service, then making a container that will hold the desired web content and serve it using the image of the web hosting service.
- The goal of the second part of the project is to then automate the imaging process utilizing a docker repo and github workflows. The idea for this part is essentially, the github workflow will detect certain actions such as a push of a Docker Image and push it to DockerHub

# Run Project Locally
- To install Docker locally, all you need to do is go to the docker website in a web browser and install Docker for your OS. Once installed, you can run docker commands in your WSL2 terminal
- To build an image from the dockerfile, you simply can do "docker build -t"  followed by your desired container name and version as well as a . to signify the current repo as such "project4test:v1 ."
- As long as you are in the folder containing the DockerFile, docker will automatically recognize the docker file and build based on that file. That is why the "." is necessary so Docker knows the dockerfile is in the current repo
- To run the container you can then run "docker run -p 80:80 " followed by "containerName: version "
- With these steps complete, the web content will now be served on your local host at port 80. To view this, you can simply go to your web browser of choice and go to "localhost:80" or "127.0.0.1:80"
 

# Github Actions and DockerHubi
- To create a public repo on DockerHub, I simply went to the dockerhub website. Went to repositories ->  create repository. Then checked public and named it as desired. 
- To authenticate dockerhub via CLI you first need your username. After this you are prompted for a password. However, docker also has access tokens that can be generated to replace putting in a password. Tokens are safer to use then passwords because if someone were to find out your token, you can simply delete the token and create another one instead of having to change your account password or potentially even make a new Docker account.
- To push container images to Dockerhub without github actions, I simply used the command provided by Docker, which was "docker push joeytimm/ceg3120-project4:tagname". Obviously tagname was replaced with my desired tagname, but besides that small change, the command works.
- This repository can be found here https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/joeytimm/ceg3120-project4/general
- To set a in Github, you have to go to the desired repository, then go to settings. From there under the security tab on the lefthand side of the screen, there is a secrets and variable dropdown. Click that, then actions. Here, you can add repository secrets as needed for this project. The secrets needed for this project are the aforementioned credentials to log in to docker via the command line. This will be your docker username, and the token you generate.
- The github workflow triggers when someone pushes to the master branch of the github repository. When this happens, the workflow will checkout the repository, which allows the workflow to access it. Then it will log into docker with the github secrets previously discussed. Afer this, the workflow builds a new image and pushes it to the docker repository established toward the beginning of the workflow file as an enviornment variable. 
- Regarding variables that need changed for this project, the github secrets are established outside of this workflow. If you use the same secret names as already on the file, then these do not need changed. Otherwise, these docker credentials variables will need changed to correspond to your secrets added earlier. Besides the secrets, the main variable that needs changed is the enviornment variable, "DOCKER-HUB-REPO". Obviously, this will need to be changed to whatever docker repo you wish your images to go to. 
